README.md, before:

# Drive Collector Bot

[中文文档](docs/README_CN.md)

A modular Telegram bot for transferring files to Rclone remotes.

## Features

- File transfer from Telegram to cloud storage via Rclone
- Batch file processing with progress monitoring
- Queue management for concurrent uploads
- Modular architecture with repositories, services, and UI templates

## Installation

```bash
npm install
```

## Configuration

1.  Copy the `.env.example` file to `.env`:

    ```bash
    cp .env.example .env
    ```

2.  Edit the `.env` file and fill in your credentials. All required environment variables are listed in this file.

## QStash Integration

QStash is integrated as a message queuing system to enable reliable asynchronous task processing and webhook handling.

### Purpose and Architecture

- **Decoupling**: Separates task scheduling from execution, allowing for elastic scaling
- **Reliability**: Messages are persisted and retried on failure
- **Webhook Security**: Validates incoming webhooks using cryptographic signatures
- **Topics**: Organized into `download-tasks`, `upload-tasks`, and `system-events`

### Architecture Overview

```
Telegram Bot → QStash → Webhook → Cloudflare Worker LB → Active Instances
     ↓              ↓              ↓              ↓              ↓
   Task Creation  Message Queue   Signature     Load Balance    Task Processing
   (Sync)         (Async)         Verification   (Round Robin)   (Async)
```

### Features

- **Message Publishing**: Send tasks to different topics with optional delays
- **Batch Operations**: Handle multiple related tasks efficiently
- **Signature Verification**: Ensures webhook authenticity
- **Media Group Batching**: Aggregates related media files for batch processing

## Cloudflare Worker Load Balancer

A Cloudflare Worker that distributes QStash webhooks across multiple bot instances for high availability.

### Role and Functions

- **Load Distribution**: Routes incoming webhooks to active instances using round-robin algorithm
- **Health Monitoring**: Tracks instance status via heartbeat mechanism
- **Fault Tolerance**: Automatic failover between Cloudflare Cache (KV) and Upstash Redis
- **Signature Verification**: Validates QStash webhook signatures before forwarding

### Deployment via GitHub Actions

The load balancer is automatically deployed when changes are pushed to `main` or `develop` branches affecting worker files.

**Workflow Triggers:**
- Push to `main` → Production environment
- Push to `develop` → Development environment

**Environment-Specific Configuration:**
- Production: `qstash-lb` worker with production KV namespace
- Development: `qstash-lb-dev` worker with staging KV namespace

## Usage

```bash
npm start
```

For development with auto-restart:

```bash
npm run dev
```

## Testing

Run the test suite:

```bash
npm test
```

Tests cover:
- UI template rendering (progress bars, batch monitors)
- Basic functionality validation

### CI/CD

Tests are automatically run on:
- Push to `main` or `develop` branches
- Pull requests to `main` or `develop` branches

Using GitHub Actions with Node.js 20.x.

## Architecture

- `src/core/`: Core business logic (TaskManager)
- `src/services/`: External integrations (Telegram, Rclone)
- `src/repositories/`: Data persistence layer
- `src/ui/`: User interface templates
- `src/utils/`: Utility functions
- `src/bot/`: Bot event handling (Dispatcher)
- `src/modules/`: Additional modules (AuthGuard, etc.)

## Environment Variables and GitHub Secrets Configuration

### Environment Variables (Runtime)

| Variable | Description | Required |
|----------|-------------|----------|
| `BOT_TOKEN` | Telegram bot token | Yes |
| `API_ID` | Telegram API ID | Yes |
| `API_HASH` | Telegram API Hash | Yes |
| `OWNER_ID` | Bot owner Telegram ID | Yes |
| `PORT` | Server port (default: 7860) | No |
| `QSTASH_TOKEN` | Upstash QStash API token | No* |
| `QSTASH_URL` | QStash endpoint URL | No* |
| `QSTASH_CURRENT_SIGNING_KEY` | Current webhook signing key | No* |
| `QSTASH_NEXT_SIGNING_KEY` | Next webhook signing key | No* |
| `LB_WEBHOOK_URL` | Webhook base URL | No* |
| `INSTANCE_COUNT` | Total instances for sharding | No |
| `INSTANCE_ID` | Current instance ID (1-N) | No |

*Required for QStash features

### GitHub Secrets (Deployment)

| Secret | Production | Development | Description |
|--------|------------|-------------|-------------|
| `CLOUDFLARE_API_TOKEN` | Required | Required | Cloudflare API token for deployment |
| `CLOUDFLARE_ACCOUNT_ID` | Required | Required | Cloudflare account ID |
| `WORKER_NAME` | `qstash-lb` | `qstash-lb-dev` | Worker name |
| `CF_CACHE_NAMESPACE_ID` | Production NS | Staging NS | Cache namespace ID |
| `QSTASH_CURRENT_SIGNING_KEY` | Prod Key | Dev Key | Webhook signing key |
| `UPSTASH_REDIS_REST_URL` | Prod URL | Dev URL | Redis REST URL |
| `UPSTASH_REDIS_REST_TOKEN` | Prod Token | Dev Token | Redis REST token |

### Secrets Setup Guide

1. **Cloudflare Setup:**
   - Create API token with Workers and KV permissions
   - Get your account ID from Cloudflare dashboard

2. **KV Namespace:**
   - Production: Create `PRODUCTION_NS` namespace
   - Development: Create `STAGING_NS` namespace

3. **QStash Setup:**
   - Get token from Upstash console
   - Generate signing keys for webhook verification

4. **Upstash Redis (Optional):**
   - Create Redis database for KV failover
   - Get REST URL and token

## Local Development and Deployment

### Local Development

1. **Install Dependencies:**
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

2. **Environment Setup:**
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env  # Configure your environment variables
   ```

3. **Run Development Server:**
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

4. **Run Tests:**
   ```bash
   npm test
   ```

### Deployment Commands

#### Bot Deployment
- **Docker Build:** `docker build -t drive-collector-bot .`
- **Docker Run:** `docker run -p 7860:7860 drive-collector-bot`
- **Railway:** Automatic deployment on push to main/develop
- **Zeabur:** Automatic deployment via webhook

#### Load Balancer Deployment
- **Automatic:** Via GitHub Actions on push to main/develop
- **Manual Build:** `npm run build-lb` (generates wrangler.build.toml)
- **Manual Deploy:** Use Wrangler CLI or GitHub Actions

### Multi-Environment Setup

The project uses GitHub Environments for isolated production and development deployments:

- **Production Environment:** `main` branch → `qstash-lb` worker
- **Development Environment:** `develop` branch → `qstash-lb-dev` worker

Each environment has separate:
- Cache namespaces (PRODUCTION_NS, STAGING_NS)
- QStash signing keys
- Upstash Redis instances
- Worker names

### Zero-Downtime Deployment

For multi-instance deployments:

1. Set `INSTANCE_COUNT` and `INSTANCE_ID` environment variables
2. Use message sharding to prevent duplicate processing
3. Deploy instances incrementally
4. Use health checks for graceful shutdown

## License

ISC

Commit message:

docs: adds Telegram webhook setup documentation
Adds detailed instructions for setting up Telegram webhooks for both production and test environments, including the required URL formatting for test mode. This ensures users can properly configure their webhook endpoints before starting the service.

README.md, after:

# Drive Collector Bot

[中文文档](docs/README_CN.md)

A modular Telegram bot for transferring files to Rclone remotes.

## Features

- File transfer from Telegram to cloud storage via Rclone
- Batch file processing with progress monitoring
- Queue management for concurrent uploads
- Modular architecture with repositories, services, and UI templates

## Installation

```bash
npm install
```

## Configuration

1.  Copy the `.env.example` file to `.env`:

    ```bash
    cp .env.example .env
    ```

2.  Edit the `.env` file and fill in your credentials. All required environment variables are listed in this file.

## Telegram Webhook Setup

If you expose your bot via webhook (for example, when `NODE_MODE` or `TG_TEST_MODE` routes traffic through a unique endpoint), register the appropriate Telegram webhook before starting the service:

- **Production** – register with the standard Bot API:
  ```bash
  curl "https://api.telegram.org/bot${BOT_TOKEN}/setWebhook?url=https://yourserver.com/webhook"
  ```
- **Test mode** – Telegram requires `/test` between the bot token and `setWebhook`, and you can point to a dedicated test path:
  ```bash
  curl "https://api.telegram.org/bot${BOT_TOKEN}/test/setWebhook?url=https://yourserver.com/test-webhook"
  ```

Make sure the URL you supply for testing matches the `TG_TEST_MODE` routing you use on your load balancer or proxy.

## QStash Integration

QStash is integrated as a message queuing system to enable reliable asynchronous task processing and webhook handling.

### Purpose and Architecture

- **Decoupling**: Separates task scheduling from execution, allowing for elastic scaling
- **Reliability**: Messages are persisted and retried on failure
- **Webhook Security**: Validates incoming webhooks using cryptographic signatures
- **Topics**: Organized into `download-tasks`, `upload-tasks`, and `system-events`

### Architecture Overview

```
Telegram Bot → QStash → Webhook → Cloudflare Worker LB → Active Instances
     ↓              ↓              ↓              ↓              ↓
   Task Creation  Message Queue   Signature     Load Balance    Task Processing
   (Sync)         (Async)         Verification   (Round Robin)   (Async)
```

### Features

- **Message Publishing**: Send tasks to different topics with optional delays
- **Batch Operations**: Handle multiple related tasks efficiently
- **Signature Verification**: Ensures webhook authenticity
- **Media Group Batching**: Aggregates related media files for batch processing

## Cloudflare Worker Load Balancer

A Cloudflare Worker that distributes QStash webhooks across multiple bot instances for high availability.

### Role and Functions

- **Load Distribution**: Routes incoming webhooks to active instances using round-robin algorithm
- **Health Monitoring**: Tracks instance status via heartbeat mechanism
- **Fault Tolerance**: Automatic failover between Cloudflare Cache (KV) and Upstash Redis
- **Signature Verification**: Validates QStash webhook signatures before forwarding

### Deployment via GitHub Actions

The load balancer is automatically deployed when changes are pushed to `main` or `develop` branches affecting worker files.

**Workflow Triggers:**
- Push to `main` → Production environment
- Push to `develop` → Development environment

**Environment-Specific Configuration:**
- Production: `qstash-lb` worker with production KV namespace
- Development: `qstash-lb-dev` worker with staging KV namespace

## Usage

```bash
npm start
```

For development with auto-restart:

```bash
npm run dev
```

## Testing

Run the test suite:

```bash
npm test
```

Tests cover:
- UI template rendering (progress bars, batch monitors)
- Basic functionality validation

### CI/CD

Tests are automatically run on:
- Push to `main` or `develop` branches
- Pull requests to `main` or `develop` branches

Using GitHub Actions with Node.js 20.x.

## Architecture

- `src/core/`: Core business logic (TaskManager)
- `src/services/`: External integrations (Telegram, Rclone)
- `src/repositories/`: Data persistence layer
- `src/ui/`: User interface templates
- `src/utils/`: Utility functions
- `src/bot/`: Bot event handling (Dispatcher)
- `src/modules/`: Additional modules (AuthGuard, etc.)

## Environment Variables and GitHub Secrets Configuration

### Environment Variables (Runtime)

| Variable | Description | Required |
|----------|-------------|----------|
| `BOT_TOKEN` | Telegram bot token | Yes |
| `API_ID` | Telegram API ID | Yes |
| `API_HASH` | Telegram API Hash | Yes |
| `OWNER_ID` | Bot owner Telegram ID | Yes |
| `PORT` | Server port (default: 7860) | No |
| `QSTASH_TOKEN` | Upstash QStash API token | No* |
| `QSTASH_URL` | QStash endpoint URL | No* |
| `QSTASH_CURRENT_SIGNING_KEY` | Current webhook signing key | No* |
| `QSTASH_NEXT_SIGNING_KEY` | Next webhook signing key | No* |
| `LB_WEBHOOK_URL` | Webhook base URL | No* |
| `INSTANCE_COUNT` | Total instances for sharding | No |
| `INSTANCE_ID` | Current instance ID (1-N) | No |

*Required for QStash features

### GitHub Secrets (Deployment)

| Secret | Production | Development | Description |
|--------|------------|-------------|-------------|
| `CLOUDFLARE_API_TOKEN` | Required | Required | Cloudflare API token for deployment |
| `CLOUDFLARE_ACCOUNT_ID` | Required | Required | Cloudflare account ID |
| `WORKER_NAME` | `qstash-lb` | `qstash-lb-dev` | Worker name |
| `CF_CACHE_NAMESPACE_ID` | Production NS | Staging NS | Cache namespace ID |
| `QSTASH_CURRENT_SIGNING_KEY` | Prod Key | Dev Key | Webhook signing key |
| `UPSTASH_REDIS_REST_URL` | Prod URL | Dev URL | Redis REST URL |
| `UPSTASH_REDIS_REST_TOKEN` | Prod Token | Dev Token | Redis REST token |

### Secrets Setup Guide

1. **Cloudflare Setup:**
   - Create API token with Workers and KV permissions
   - Get your account ID from Cloudflare dashboard

2. **KV Namespace:**
   - Production: Create `PRODUCTION_NS` namespace
   - Development: Create `STAGING_NS` namespace

3. **QStash Setup:**
   - Get token from Upstash console
   - Generate signing keys for webhook verification

4. **Upstash Redis (Optional):**
   - Create Redis database for KV failover
   - Get REST URL and token

## Local Development and Deployment

### Local Development

1. **Install Dependencies:**
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

2. **Environment Setup:**
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env  # Configure your environment variables
   ```

3. **Run Development Server:**
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

4. **Run Tests:**
   ```bash
   npm test
   ```

### Deployment Commands

#### Bot Deployment
- **Docker Build:** `docker build -t drive-collector-bot .`
- **Docker Run:** `docker run -p 7860:7860 drive-collector-bot`
- **Railway:** Automatic deployment on push to main/develop
- **Zeabur:** Automatic deployment via webhook

#### Load Balancer Deployment
- **Automatic:** Via GitHub Actions on push to main/develop
- **Manual Build:** `npm run build-lb` (generates wrangler.build.toml)
- **Manual Deploy:** Use Wrangler CLI or GitHub Actions

### Multi-Environment Setup

The project uses GitHub Environments for isolated production and development deployments:

- **Production Environment:** `main` branch → `qstash-lb` worker
- **Development Environment:** `develop` branch → `qstash-lb-dev` worker

Each environment has separate:
- Cache namespaces (PRODUCTION_NS, STAGING_NS)
- QStash signing keys
- Upstash Redis instances
- Worker names

### Zero-Downtime Deployment

For multi-instance deployments:

1. Set `INSTANCE_COUNT` and `INSTANCE_ID` environment variables
2. Use message sharding to prevent duplicate processing
3. Deploy instances incrementally
4. Use health checks for graceful shutdown

## License

ISC
